update security doc with evaluation order, common patterns, shoter task names and some small updates (#9127)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/ops/configuration/security/security-policy-examples/index.md

hosts, you can use the authorization policy for fine grained JWT validation in addition to the
[request authentication](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/authn-policy/#end-user-authentication) policy.

Use the following policy if you want to allow access to the given hosts if JWT principal matches. Access to other hosts
will always be denied.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: jwt-per-host
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      istio: ingressgateway
  action: ALLOW
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        hosts: ["example.com", "*.example.com"]
        # the JWT token must have issuer with suffix "@example.com"
        requestPrincipals: ["*@example.com"]
    - source:
        hosts: [".another.org", "*.another.org"]
        # the JWT token must have issuer with suffix "@another.org"
        requestPrincipals: ["*@another.org"]
{{< /text >}}

### Namespace isolation

You want to block all traffic from outside the namespace `foo`, in other words, isolate the namespace `foo` from other

> namespaces. This requires you have already enabled mTLS.

Reviewer: Shall we instead say "allow access from the same namespace"?

Author: I'm just afraid the `same namespace` gives the impression that the policy can be used for any namespace but in fact you need to explicitly specify the `foo` namespace, in other words, we do not have the semantics of `current.namespace`.

Reviewer: I mean "block" is a bit misleading because this is ALLOW policy.

Author: updated.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: foo-isolation
  namespace: foo
spec:
  action: ALLOW
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        namespaces: ["foo"]
{{< /text >}}

### Namespace isolation with ingress exception

> You want to block all traffic from outside the namespace `foo` except the traffic from the ingress gateway.

Reviewer: Allow access from Ingress gateway.

This requires you have already enabled mTLS.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: ns-isolation-except-ingress
  namespace: foo
spec:
  action: ALLOW
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        namespaces: ["foo"]
    - source:
        principals: ["cluster.local/ns/istio-system/sa/istio-ingressgateway-service-account"]
{{< /text >}}

### Require mTLS in authorization layer (defense in depth)

You have configured `PeerAuthentication` to `STRICT` but want to make sure the traffic is indeed protected by mTLS with
extra check in the authorization layer, i.e., defense in depth.

> The following policy enforces mTLS for workloads in the `foo` namespace:

Reviewer: You can add explanation that the policy below says, "Deny a request unless" the principal is non-empty ("*" means non-empty).

Author: I feel it becomes more difficult to understand the meaning with double negative phrases (`unless` and `non-empty`). It seems much simpler if we just use the positive phrase: `deny the request if the principal is empty` or `in other words, the policy allows request if the principal is non-empty`.

I updated the descriptions, let me know what you think.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: require-mtls
  namespace: foo
spec:
  action: DENY
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        notPrincipals: ["*"]
{{< /text >}}

### Require mandatory authorization check with `DENY` policy

You can use the `DENY` policy If you want to require mandatory authorization check that must be satisfied and cannot be
bypassed by another more permissive policy, you can use the `DENY` policy. This is different from `ALLOW` policy because
a more permissive `ALLOW` policy will allow more requests and bypass the more restrictive `ALLOW` policy.

Use the following policy to enforce mandatory JWT validation that rejects the request if it has no JWT token in addition
to the [request authentication](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/authn-policy/#end-user-authentication) policy. The policy
uses `DENY` action which means it cannot be bypassed by another `ALLOW` policy.

> 

Reviewer: Similar here. "Deny a request unless" the requestPrincipal (i.e., JWT 'sub' claim) is non-empty.

Author: updated but please see comment above.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: require-jwt
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      istio: ingressgateway
  action: DENY
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        notRequestPrincipals: ["*"]
{{< /text >}}

Similarly, Use the following policy to enforce namespace isolation except ingress gateway. The policy uses `DENY` action
which means it cannot be bypassed by another `ALLOW` policy.

> 

Reviewer: "Deny a request unless" request is from 'foo' namespace and ingress gateway.

Author: updated but please see comment above.

---
title: Security policy examples
description: Shows common examples of using Istio security policy.
weight: 60
owner: istio/wg-security-maintainers

> test: n/a

Reviewer 2: I'm thinking this is more of a `no` than `n/a`. This page could have tests of the various snippets.

Author: updated to `no`.

---

## Background

> This page shows common patterns of using Istio security policy. You may find them useful in your deployment or use this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This page shows common patterns of using Istio security policies. You may find them useful in your deployment or use this
```

as a quick reference to example policies.

> The policy demonstrated here are just examples and please make necessary changes to adapt to your actual environment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The policies demonstrated here are just examples and and require changes to adapt to your actual environment
```

before applying.

> Also read the [authentication tasks](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/authn-policy) and the
> [authorization tasks](/docs/tasks/security/authorization) for hands-on tutorial of using the security policy with much
> more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also read the [authentication](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/authn-policy) and
[authorization](/docs/tasks/security/authorization) tasks for a hands-on tutorial of using the security policy in
more detail.
```

### Require different JWT issuer per host

JWT validation is common on the ingress gateway and you may want to require different JWT issuers for different

> hosts, you can use the authorization policy for fine grained JWT validation in addition to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
hosts. You can use the authorization policy for fine grained JWT validation in addition to the
```

{{< /text >}}

### Namespace isolation

The following policy allows traffic only from the namespace `foo`. In other words, it isolates the namespace `foo` from other
namespaces. This requires you have already enabled mTLS.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: foo-isolation
  namespace: foo
spec:
  action: ALLOW
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        namespaces: ["foo"]
{{< /text >}}

### Namespace isolation with ingress exception

The following policy allows traffic only from the namespace `foo` and also from the ingress gateway. This requires you have already enabled mTLS.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: ns-isolation-except-ingress
  namespace: foo
spec:
  action: ALLOW
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        namespaces: ["foo"]
    - source:
        principals: ["cluster.local/ns/istio-system/sa/istio-ingressgateway-service-account"]
{{< /text >}}

### Require mTLS in authorization layer (defense in depth)

You have configured `PeerAuthentication` to `STRICT` but want to make sure the traffic is indeed protected by mTLS with

> extra check in the authorization layer, i.e., defense in depth.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
an extra check in the authorization layer, i.e., defense in depth.
```

The following policy denies the request if the principal is empty. The principal will be empty if plain text is used.

> In other words, the policy allows request if the principal is non-empty.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In other words, the policy allows requests if the principal is non-empty.
```

> "*" means non-empty match and using with `notPrincipals` means matching on empty principal.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`"*"` means non-empty match and using with `notPrincipals` means matching on empty principal.
```

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: require-mtls
  namespace: foo
spec:
  action: DENY
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        notPrincipals: ["*"]
{{< /text >}}

### Require mandatory authorization check with `DENY` policy

You can use the `DENY` policy if you want to require mandatory authorization check that must be satisfied and cannot be
bypassed by another more permissive `ALLOW` policy. This works because the `DENY` policy takes precedence over the
`ALLOW` policy and could deny a request early before `ALLOW` policies.

Use the following policy to enforce mandatory JWT validation in addition to the [request authentication](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/authn-policy/#end-user-authentication) policy.
The policy denies the request if the request principal is empty. The request principal will be empty if JWT validation failed.

> In other words, the policy allows request if the request principal is non-empty.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In other words, the policy allows requests if the request principal is non-empty.
```

---
title: Security policy examples
description: Shows common examples of using Istio security policy.
weight: 60
owner: istio/wg-security-maintainers
test: n/a
---

## Background

This page shows common patterns of using Istio security policy. You may find them useful in your deployment or use this
as a quick reference to example policies.

The policy demonstrated here are just examples and please make necessary changes to adapt to your actual environment
before applying.

Also read the [authentication tasks](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/authn-policy) and the
[authorization tasks](/docs/tasks/security/authorization) for hands-on tutorial of using the security policy with much
more details.

### Require mandatory JWT validation

The `RequestAuthentication` policy defines a list of JWT issuers that are allowed, by default it also allows
requests without JWT token.

> After defining the `RequestAuthentication` policy, use the following extra policy to enforce mandatory JWT validation

Reviewer: Do you want to add a RequestAuthentication policy example here?

Author: I prefer not, this page mainly lists example that is not found in the normal tasks page, the request authn example can be found in the task page already.

Reviewer: Then add a link to the existing RequestAuthentication policy example.

Author: added.

that rejects the request if it has no JWT token:

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: require-jwt
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      istio: ingressgateway
  action: DENY
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        notRequestPrincipals: ["*"]
EOF
{{< /text >}}

### Require different JWT issuer per host

JWT validation is common on the ingress gateway and you may want to require different JWT issuers for different
hosts, you can use the authorization policy for finer grained JWT validation in addition to the request authentication.

> Use the following policy if you want to allow requests only to the listed hosts and reject requests to any other hosts:

Reviewer: Remove "only" and "reject...". Can you provide a more detailed description the the below policy? e.g. allow access to the given hosts if JWT principal matches.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: jwt-per-host
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      istio: ingressgateway
  action: ALLOW
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        hosts: ["example.com", "*.example.com"]
        # the JWT token must have issuer with suffix "@example.com"
        requestPrincipals: ["*@example.com"]
    - source:
        hosts: [".another.org", "*.another.org"]
        # the JWT token must have issuer with suffix "@another.org"
        requestPrincipals: ["*@another.org"]
{{< /text >}}

Alternatively, use the following policy if you want to require JWT validation only to the listed hosts but not for any

> other hosts:

Reviewer: Can you provide a more accurate description of the policy?

Author: Updated based on comments above.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: jwt-per-host
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      istio: ingressgateway
  action: DENY
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        hosts: ["example.com", "*.example.com"]
        # the JWT token must have issuer with suffix "@example.com"
        notRequestPrincipals: ["*@example.com"]
    - source:
        hosts: [".another.org", "*.another.org"]
        # the JWT token must have issuer with suffix "@another.org"
        notRequestPrincipals: ["*@another.org"]
{{< /text >}}

### Namespace isolation

You want to block all traffic from outside the namespace `foo`, in other words, isolate the namespace `foo` from other
namespaces. This requires to enable mTLS first.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: foo-isolation
  namespace: foo
spec:
  action: ALLOW
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        namespaces: ["foo"]
{{< /text >}}

If you want to make sure the policy can not be bypassed by other `ALLOW` policies, you can use the `DENY` policy to

> achieve the result:

Reviewer: Do we have to give an example DENY policy for every use case? I feel it is a little repeating.

Author: Yeah, that's good suggestion. I think what I really want to show is the non bypassable property of the DENY policy. Moved the duplicate deny policies to a dedicated section to make this more clear.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: ns-isolation
  namespace: foo
spec:
  action: DENY
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        notNamespaces: ["foo"]
{{< /text >}}

### Namespace isolation with ingress exception

> You want to block all traffic from outside the namespace `foo` except the traffic from the ingress gateway.

Reviewer: The allow policy is not block unless you have an existing "allow-nothing" policy.

Author: the deny-by-default behavior is enabled as long as there is any ALLOW policy, but not necessary a "allow-nothing" policy. So by applying the following ALLOW policy, anything not allowed will be denied by default.

This requires to enable mTLS first.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: ns-isolation-except-ingress
  namespace: foo
spec:
  action: ALLOW
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        namespaces: ["foo"]
    - source:
        principals: ["cluster.local/ns/istio-system/sa/istio-ingressgateway-service-account"]
{{< /text >}}

If you want to make sure the policy can not be bypassed by another `ALLOW` policy, you can use the `DENY` policy to

> achieve the result:

Reviewer: Same here.

Author: not quite sure what does this mean, the DENY policy example is used to explicitly deny if the request is from out of the namespace and also not ingress gateway. You don't need any "allow-nothing" policy for this to work.
